# Project Summary and Conclusion #
A summary and conclusion on the project

## Summary ##
This personal project started because I wanted to learn more about containers and build a homelab without the need of having the physical equipement. The project's objectives were: 
1) Learn how container networking functions
2) Become more familiar with containers
3) Learn SRLinux
4) Successfully configure a container network

The original toplogy consisted of three nodes and two clients deployed in a spine and leaf architecture, and the setup was deployed and ran inside of a Ubunutu Server virtual machine. Week 1 was focused on learning the fundamentals of SRLinux and deploying a toplogy using Container Lab. However, I encountered problems with deploying the lab such as duplicate interfaces with the same IP Addresses preventing management access, and problems with clients being unable to communicate with each other. Fortuantely, I learned how to troubleshoot the former, but the latter required me to start a newer and smaller toplogy to better learn the intricacies of SRLinux. 

Week 2's focus was learning how to configure a network where clients can communicate with each other on the same LAN and on different VLANs. Starting with the topology, I defined a toplogy with one node and two clients. Clients were assigned to the 172.16.16.0/24 network. I configured the node to forward traffic between its interfaces that the clients were connected to, and I configured the clients with their respective IP Addresses (more details in Week 2 Directory). After verifying that the clients could communicate with each other, I made the toplogy slightly more complex with the addition of another client and the establishment of two VLANs (10 and 20). It took me awhile to learn how to create VLANs and a Swtiched Viritual Interface (SVI) (*SRLinux called it an Intergrated Routing and Bridging Interface*) to route traffic between the two networks, but once I learned how to clients from VLAN 10 were able to communicate with clients on VLAN 20 and vice-versa.

During the Final Weeks, the objectives was to revist the original toplogy and apply what I learned from Weeks 1 and 2. It was during these final weeks that I realized that the orignial toplogy was not designed for setting up and sending tagged traffic across a network. Firstly, each leaf only had one client, and secondly, each leaf assigned the client to a different VLAN. Upon my realization of this problem, a new toplogy was designed with two nodes connected to each other, each node having two clients, and each node assigning one client to VLAN 10 and the other to VLAN 20. After making this change and configuring the nodes, I encountered a problem with the tagged (trunking) interfaces. The nodes' tagged interfaces dropped forwarded frames from clients connected to the other node. Eventually I discovered that I misconfigured the tagged interfaces, and once I corrected it, clients on the same VLAN were able to communicate with each other. 

*Side note: The focus of that toplogy was to have clients on the same VLAN communicate with each other from seperate nodes, so I did not configure a SVI to route traffic between the two VLANs.*

## Conclusion ##
I found plenty of enjoyment working through this project! In regards to my objectives, I felt that I achieved them. However, I need to define goals that are more measurable or design methods to better quantitate them in future projects. Regarding Container Lab's use cases, there are many situtations were I find this becoming useful. For example, this tool allows a person to develop a network without the need of having the equipment, time, nor resources to do so in a typical network deployment. This is perfect for situations where a person or organization would like to have an experimental network to test and develop new tools and applications. Additionally, this grants a person the opportunity to create their own homelab without the need of having the equipement. Another use case that I see this being is cloud deployment. Given how easily a toplogy can be defined and quickly it can be deployed, a network and its services can efficently scale. 

Of course this tool does have its draw backs. Firstly, there are a limited amount of containerized network operating systems that can be deployed, some require license while others do not. This is somewhat alleviated by tool's ability to work intendem with systems running on virtual machines, but I cannot speak to how well it works since I haven't experimented with it. Another potential drawback is performance. I imagine that a virtualized network device does not perform nearly as well as a physical one nor will it be able to handel as much traffic, but I may be wrong about that.
